==============================
= SMS Chip-8 interpreter 0.21=
==============================

  by Maxim in 2002 and 2005

   É  Return to the menu
   Å  Stop scrolling
   Ç  Scroll faster

What is Chip-8 anyway?
======================

Back in the late 70s and early
80s, there were some small
computers, both manufactured
and home-made, for which a
language was invented which
was suitable for writing very
small games for very small
computers - there are less
than 40 instructions for
everything ( processing,
memory, sound, graphics and
input) and a game can be
written in under 200 bytes.

Many years later, Chip-8 was
revived as a game programming
language for the HP48
calculator, as an interpreter
was written and then people
could play and write games
easily. This inspired "Super-
Chip", with enhanced
capabilities.

What's Chip-8 capable of then?
==============================

Well... you have a screen. It's
a whopping 64 by 32 pixels.
Each pixel is 1-bit. You have
sound - it's either on or it's
off. You have input, and
plenty of it - a 16-key pad.
You have 16 registers and 4KB
of RAM, which contains the
interpreter, program and data.
And a 16-level stack. It has a
built-in font for displaying
hexadecimal numbers, and you
can make your own sprites. It
can generate random numbers,
and has sprite collision
detection.

Super-Chip doubles the
resolution and adds some
scrolling commands. However,
it is not supported by this
interpreter.

Why no Super-Chip?
==================

Because there is, in fact, no
easy way to do it with the
SMS's graphics capabilities.
While I can use tiles to
display 2x2 Chip-8 pixels per
tile (there are 2^4=16
permutations), doing the same
for Super-Chip, with 4x4
pixels per tile, would need
2^16=65536 different tiles.
The SMS only has 450 or so...

What games are there?
=====================

There are lots of Pong-style
games as the system can do
them quite easily, but there
are also some other nice games.
Look at the list at the main
menu. I like:

Ä Syzygy
Ä Blitz
Ä Tetris
Ä Pong

Controls
========

Obviously the SMS can't easily
control all 16 input keys at
once. So, for each game, the
joypads' buttons are mapped to
the appropriate keys, and each
game shows its controls in the
menu.

There are two Chip-8 games
which require more keys than
the SMS can easily provide;
they're not included.

Graphics
========

Press Button 2 on the title
screen to change the graphic
style. The styles are:

Ä Old TV game
Ä LCD
Ä Shadowed dots
Ä Grid with green squares
Ä Checked
Ä Scanlines

Several of these are a bit
crappy, I just drew whatever
came into my mind. If anyone
thinks they can do better then
show me!

Sound
=====

At least I made it quiet.

Speed
=====

The SMS is more than capable
of interpreting Chip-8 games.
The speed has been throttled
down to a reasonably fast and
playable speed. It's a bit
faster than the Dos
interpreter I tried, but I
think it's better. Some games
are very fast, but you can
easily get used to it. I
recommend you play on a 50Hz
system for the best balance.
Or just change the speed in an
emulator to whatever you like
best.

Credits
=======

Ä www.goldroad.co.uk for
  suggesting Chip-8 as a simple
  "emulation" project
Ä David Winter for CHIP8 and
  the comprehensive
  documentation and
  information it includes, and
  his various Chip-8 tools
  like the disassembler
Ä Cowgod for his Chip-8
  Technical Reference which is
  a useful fast reference
Ä All the people whose game
  packs I collated, and the
  original game authors













OK, I can't think of anything
more to write.
Oh yes, I can :P












This program is dedicated to
Michelle :D













OK, if you forgot, press 1 to
get back to the menu.




























Do you think if you wait you
might get to see a secret
message?























































































Maybe you will...















































.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.









































































I can play this game all day,
you know...

























































































































Hey, you didn't cheat and
increase the frameskip,
did you?







































































































































































You know, you could always
just open the rom in a hex
editor, or even Notepad, and
read all this. It's stored as
ASCII.



























































































































































You know what?






















































































































I think there isn't any secret
message!
































































Oh, I thought of something...








































I didn't say "hi" to Bock yet.


























































Hi Bock!
























































And Heliophobe and Charles and
Eric and Mike and Steve and...
well, all those guys.














































And now for something
completely different.

























Way down deep in the middle of
  the Congo,
A hippo took an apricot, a
  guava and a mango,
He stuck it with the others
  and danced a dainty tango,
The rhino said, "I know, we'll
  call it Um Bongo"

[chorus]
Um Bongo, Um Bongo, they drink
  it in the Congo

The python picked the
  passionfruit, the marmoset
  the mandarin
The parrot painted packets
  that the whole caboodle
  landed in
So when it comes to sun and
  fun and goodness in the
  jungle
We all prefer the sunny, funny
  one they call Um Bongo

Um Bongo, Um Bongo, they drink
  it in the Congo
[repeat until fade]



















Now, that will most likely
mean nothing to most of you,
just the British among you. So
that's all very nice.




Not much space left now...

































Time for a secret message to
Michelle:




























Ni wen wo ai ni you duo shen
Wo ai ni you ji fen

Wo de qing ye zhen
Wo de ai ye zhen
Yue liang dai biao wo de xin

Wo de qing bu yi
Wo de ai bu bian
Yue liang dai biao wo de xin

Qing qing de yi ge wen
Yi jin da dong wo de xin
Shen shen de yi duan qing
Jiao wo si nian dao ru jin

Ni qu xiang yi xiang
Ni qu kan yi kan
Yue liang dai biao wo de xin































OK, that's it. It seems there
was no secret message after
all. What a disappointment!








































Ah, time to chill out, relax,
forget about life I think. Bye
now! See you all in 2006!




And now...
.........
........
.......
......
.....
....
...
..
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

Changelog:

New in version 0.11: fixed
typos and text display engine
(I keep getting CR and LF
mixed up, 10/13/0a/0d/#!*$)
because I'm releasing it
properly with source.

New in version 0.2:
Ä Improved random number
  generator
Ä Improved display
Ä Improved unused register
  bits handling
Ä Changed secret text
Ä Added new games!

New in version 0.21:

Ä Fixed a control definition
  error making Filter and
  Guess unplayable

New in version 0.22:

Ä Tidied up a bit for release 
  on GitHub!

